.\" Process this man page with
.\" groff -man -Tascii mxmotor.1
.\"
.TH MOTOR 1 "January 2008" "MX User Manuals"
.SH NAME
mxmotor \- command line based user interface for MX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mxmotor [
.I options
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mxmotor
is the original command line based interface for the MX data acquisition
and control system.  It is capable of controlling all devices in an MX-based
system and can run data acquisition scans as well.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-A"
enables network protocol debugging.  If this option is selected, each message
passing between the client and the server(s) will result in a message being
sent to stderr that describes the content of the message.
.IP "-d debug_level"
specifies the debugging level to run
.B mxmotor
at.  The default value is 0.
.IP -D
requests that
.B mxmotor
automatically start a program debugger such as that from Visual Studio or gdb
at program startup time.
.IP "-f device_database_name"
requests that
.B mxmotor
load its device database from the specified filename.  In this case,
.B mxmotor
will attempt to save changed values to a new copy of the device database.
.IP "-F device_database_name"
requests that
.B mxmotor
load its device database from the specified filename.  In this case,
.B mxmotor
will
.B not
attempt to rewrite the device database when it exits.
.IP "-g global_mxmotorrc_file"
specifys a script of mxmotor commands that are to be run when
.B mxmotor
starts up.  The default value for this filename is
$MXDIR/etc/startup/mxmotor.startup
.IP -H
tells
.B mxmotor
not to install its normal signal handlers.  This is intended for
debugging purposes.
.IP -i
tells
.B mxmotor
not to run any startup scripts when it starts.  By default,
.B mxmotor
attempts to run the scripts
$MXDIR/etc/startup/mxmotor.startup
and
$HOME/.mx/mxmotor.startup
if they exist.
.IP -n
tells
.B mxmotor
to always save scans to the scan database without prompting.  The default
behavior is to always prompt the user before saving.
.IP -N
tells
.B mxmotor
to never change the saved scan database.  Changes to the scan database while 
.B mxmotor
was running will be lost when
.B mxmotor
exits.
.IP "-p program_prompt_name"
tells
.B mxmotor
to change the default prompt from "mxmotor>" to "program_prompt_name>".
This is useful for visually identifying alternate versions of the
.B mxmotor
shell script that use different databases.
.IP "-P default_display_precision"
specifys the default for how many digits after the decimal point are to be
displayed by clients.
.IP "-s scan_database_name"
requests that
.B mxmotor
load its scan database from the specified filename.  In this case,
.B mxmotor
will attempt to save a changed version of the scan database with a new
version when it exits.  This is the default behavior.
.IP "-S scan_database_name"
requests that
.B mxmotor
load its scan database from the specified filename.  In this case,
.B mxmotor
will
.B not
attempt to rewrite the scan database when it exits.
.IP -t
requests that 
.B mxmotor
display a message when the open() routine for
a given record is invoked.  The resulting messages look like
.nf
Jul 12 14:39:20 Opening record 'keithley4'.
.fi
This feature is to help in determining why 
.B mxmotor
is hanging during startup.  Generally the record whose 'Opening record'
message is displayed last is the record that is causing the problem.
.IP -u
tells 
.B mxmotor
to configure its stdin and stdout to be unbuffered.  The original intent
was to make it easier to send commands to
.B mxmotor
over a pipe.  However, the author feels that this is not a good way to 
write higher level programs that talk to the control system.  Instead,
you should use the provided Python (MP), Tcl (MxTcl), etc. scripting
interfaces for higher level programs, since sending commands over a pipe to
.B mxmotor
is very inefficient.  Furthermore,
.B mxmotor
is not really designed to be used in this fashion and is intended to
be a user interface program.
.IP -z
tells
.B mxmotor
not to load any scan savefiles at startup time.

.SH NOTES
.B mxmotor
is just a shell script wrapper around the real binary
.B mxmotor.shared.
The shell script wrapper invokes the real binary using a command line like

	$MXDIR/bin/mxmotor.shared -F $MXDIR/etc/mxmotor.dat -s $HOME/scan.dat $*

If you wish to make available several different client databases depending
on which kind of experiment you are running, the simplest way is to
copy the 
.B mxmotor
shell script to a different name and change the names of the database file
it loads.  If you wished to put your alternate device database in mxerxes.dat
and scans in sxerxes.dat, the appropriate command line in the shell script
would be

	$MXDIR/bin/mxmotor.shared -p mxerxes -F $MXDIR/etc/mxerxes.dat -s $HOME/sxerxes.dat $*

.SH FILES
The following are conventional locations for these files.  The conventional
value for MXDIR is /opt/mx.
.IP $MXDIR/etc/mxmotor.dat
- record database for MX client programs.

.SH AUTHOR
William Lavender <lavender@agni.phys.iit.edu>
