.\" Process this man page with
.\" groff -man -Tascii mxupdate.8
.\"
.TH MXSERVER 8 "January 2008" "MX Administrator Manuals"
.SH NAME
mxserver \- server for the MX data acquisition and control system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mxserver [
.I options
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mxserver
is the primary server for the MX data acquisition and control system.
It is the responsibility of the MX server to manage data acquisition hardware
on behalf of client application programs.  The MX server is normally not
started directly, but instead is implicitly started by running the init
script 
.B mx(8)
with a command line like

	/opt/mx/sbin/mx start

if MXDIR is set to /opt/mx.  If you start the MX server using the
$MXDIR/sbin/mx script described above, you can specify additional command line
arguments for the MX server in the file $MXDIR/etc/mxserver.opt.  This is
most frequently used to enable the -t option.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-A"
enables network protocol debugging.  If this option is selected, each message
passing between the server and the client(s) will result in a message being
sent to stderr that describes the content of the message.
.IP "-b fmt"
specifies the format to use for client communication.  Currently, the possible
values for
.I fmt
are 'raw', 'xdr', 'ascii'.  Normally this argument is only used for testing
the server, since it is generally better to let the client and server
autonegotiate the best format at connection time.
.IP "-C acl_filename"
specifies the name of the client connection ACL file.
.IP "-c"
enables asynchronous callback support.
.IP "-d debug_level"
specifies the debugging level to run the server at.  The default value is 0.
.IP -D
requests that 
.B mxserver
automatically start a program debugger such as that from Visual Studio or gdb
at program startup time.
.IP "-e filename"
redirects the output of stderr to the specified file name.  In this case,
the buffering of stderr is not changed.
.IP "-E filename"
is the same as the previous option, except stderr is configured to be
unbuffered.
.IP "-f database_filename"
specifies the name of the MX database file that describes the devices to be
controlled by this MX server.
You should almost always specify this option flag.
.IP "-k"
disables asynchronous callback support.
.IP "-l log_number"
specifies which of the logs to use from the available values of
LOG_LOCAL0 to LOG_LOCAL7.  Note that you specify the numerical value
alone without LOG_LOCAL in front of it.
.IP "-L log_number"
does the same thing as the
.I -l
option, except that messages are also logged to stderr in this case.
.IP "-n microseconds"
requests that the MX server sleep at the start of each pass through the
event loop for the requested number of microseconds.  The default behavior
is to not perform any sleep in the event loop.  You should only use this
option as a stopgap if you have reason to believe that the MX server is
sending commands to a data acquisition device too frequently, which should
almost never happen.
.IP "-p port_number"
specifies the TCP port number that the server will wait for clients on.
.IP "-P default_display_precision"
specifys the default for how many digits after the decimal point are to be
displayed by clients.
.IP -s
requests that the MX server display a stack traceback when sent
a SIGINT signal.  The default is not to display a stack traceback.
.IP -S
requests that the MX server
.B not
display a stack traceback when sent a SIGINT signal.  In the current version
of the MX server, this is essentially redundant.
.IP -t
requests that the server display a message when the open() routine for
a given record is invoked.  The resulting messages look like
.nf
Jul 12 14:39:20 Opening record 'keithley4'.
.fi
This feature is to help in determining why an MX server is hanging during 
server startup.  Generally the record whose 'Opening record' message is
displayed last in the server log is the record that is causing the problem.
.IP "-u filename"
specifies the name of a Unix domain socket that the server will wait for
clients on.  Please note that the '-t' and '-u' options are
.B not
mutually exclusive.  It is possible for a given server to monitor both
a TCP socket and a Unix domain socket for client connections.
.IP -Z
requests the MX server to not install its normal signal handlers.  This option
is intended for debugging purposes.  It can be useful if the standard crash
handlers are making it hard to determine the reason for the original crash.

.SH FILES
The following are conventional locations for these file.  The conventional
value for MXDIR is /opt/mx.
.IP $MXDIR/etc/mxserver.dat
- record database for the MX server.
.IP $MXDIR/etc/mxserver.acl
- client connection ACL file.

.SH SEE_ALSO
.B mxserver.dat(5), mxserver.acl(5), mx(8)

.SH AUTHOR
William Lavender <lavender@agni.phys.iit.edu>

